## Launching and logging onto a cloud instance


Objectives:

* Choose a cloud platform and learn how to access
* Launch an instance 
* Identify the address of your cloud instance 
* Log in to your cloud instance

**Important Caveat**: For many of the above steps, your instructor will have completed these tasks for you. If you are learning on your own, or trying this after the workshop, see the exercises and instructions below. 

### Choosing a cloud platform

The most important thing about *The Cloud* is choice - instead of purchasing a physical computer, you can obtain on-demand computing at almost any scale. This power comes with advantages and disadvantages:

**Advantages of Cloud Computing**
* Access large amounts of computing power on demand
* Full administrative rights - install anything
* Use pre-configured images (software already installed)
 

**Disadvantages of Cloud Computing**
* Cloud computing costs money (you must keep track of your costs)
* If you need help, you may not have a local system administrator 
* Images may be poorly documented (you may not be clear on what is installed, or how to use it)

### Cloud platform choices

There are several cloud providers to choose from. Some scientific clouds may either be free or allocate resources competitively. Commercial clouds are can be very powerful, but choice can be overwhelming. We will cover as much as we you need to get through the Data Carpentry lessons, but you will ultimately need to learn things not covered here so see the documentation below:

#### Commercial Clouds

* [Amazon Web Services](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EC2_GetStarted.html)
* [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/quickstart)

#### Open Science Clouds
* [Atmosphere](https://pods.iplantcollaborative.org/wiki/display/atmman/Getting+Started)
* [JetStream](http://jetstream-cloud.org/)*

\* Coming in 2016


## Launching an Cloud Instance (Virtual Machine) or connecting to a HPC


 > **Tip:** Keep in mind, if you are attending a workshop this will have already been done for you!

We will provide instructions for working on the cloud or HPC resouces. Follow the instructions for your platform of choice.

* [Amazon AWS](1.amazon-aws.md)
* [iPlant Atmosphere](1.atmosphere-iplant.md)

